Build changes + some content (#38)
fsprojects/fsharp-cheatsheet: docs/fsharp-cheatsheet.md

<div id="comments"></div>

# Comments

Block comments are placed between `(*` and `*)`. Line comments start from `//` and continue until the end of the line.

```fsharp
(* This is block comment *)

> // And this is line comment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// And this is a line comment
```

```

XML doc comments come after `///` allowing us to use XML tags to generate documentation.

```fsharp

> /// The `let` keyword defines an (immutable) value

Reviewer: ideally this example would be a function to illustrate the point better

# Functions

## `let` bindings

Use the `let` keyword to define named functions.

```fsharp
let add n1 n2 = n1 + n2
let subtract n1 n2 = n1 - n2
let negate num = -1 * num
let print num = printfn $"The number is: {num}"
```
## Pipe and Composition Operators

Pipe operator `|>` is used to chain functions and arguments together.

```fsharp
let addTwoSubtractTwoNegateAndPrint num =
    num |> add 2 |> subtract 2 |> negate |> print
```

Composition operator `>>` is used to compose functions:

```fsharp
let addTwoSubtractTwoNegateAndPrint' =
    add 2 >> subtract 2 >> negate >> print
```

Caution: The output is the _last_ argument to the next function.

```fsharp
// `addTwoSubtractTwoNegateAndPrint 10` becomes:
10
|> add 2       //  2 + 10  = 12
|> subtract 2  //  2 - 12  = -10
|> negate      // -1 * -10 = 10
|> print       // "The number is 10"
```

## Anonymous functions

Anonymous, or "lambda" functions, are denoted by the `fun` keyword and the arrow operator `->`.

```fsharp
let isDescending xs =
    xs
    |> List.pairwise
    |> List.forAll (fun (x, y) -> x > y)

let suspiciousRecords =
    records
    |> Seq.filter (fun x -> x.Age >= 150)
```
### _.Property shorthand

> If the lambda function has a single argument which is used in an atomic expression, the following shorthand has been available since F# 8:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the lambda function has a single argument that is used in an atomic expression, the following shorthand has been available since F# 8:
```

```fsharp
let names =
    people
    |> List.map (fun person -> person.Name)   // regular lambda expression

let names' =
    people
    |> List.map _.Name    // _.Property shorthand
```

You may chain properties and methods together, so long as there is no "space" in the expression. E.g.:

```fsharp
let uppercaseNames =

>     people |> List.map _.Name.ToUpper()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    people |> List.map _.Name.ToUpperInvariant()
```

```

<div id="functions-unit-type"></div>

## `unit` Type

The `unit` type is a type that indicates the absence of a specific value. It is represented by `()`.
The most common use is when you have a function that receives no parameters, but you need it to evaluate on every call:

```fsharp

> let appendSomeTextToFile () =  // without unit, only one line would be appended to the file

Reviewer: maybe a function that calls DateTime.Now is a better example? this is pety cryptic for a newcomer

```

Most of the time, the compiler can determine the type of a parameter, but there are cases may you wish to be explicit or the compiler needs a hand.
Here is a function with a signature `string -> char -> int` and the input and return types are explicit:

```fsharp
let countWordsStartingWithLetter (theString: string) (theLetter: char) : int =
    theString.Split ' '
    |> Seq.where (fun (word: string) -> word.StartsWith theLetter)  // explicit typing in a lambda
    |> Seq.length
```

Examples of functions that take [`unit`](#functions-unit-type) as arguments and return different [Collection](#collections) types.

```fsharp
let getList (): int list = ...  // unit -> int list
let getArray (): int[] = ...
let getSeq (): seq<int> = ...
```

A complex declaration with an [Anonymous Record](#data-types-anonymous-records):

```fsharp
let anonRecordFunc (record: {| Count: int; LeftAndRight: bigint * bigint |}) =
    ...
```

<div id="functions-recursive"></div>

## Recursive Functions

The `rec` keyword is used together with the `let` keyword to define a recursive function:

```fsharp
let rec fact x =
    if x < 1 then 1
    else x * fact (x - 1)
```

### TailCallAttribute

> In _tail recursive_ functions, the recursive call is the final operation in the function, with its result directly returned without further computation. This pattern allows the compiler to optimize memory usage by reusing the current stack frame instead of allocating a new one for each call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In _tail recursive_ functions, the recursive call is the final operation in the function, with its result directly returned without a nested function call (and the stack usage that implies). This pattern allows the compiler to instead generate a loop equivalent of the nested invocation by reusing the current stack frame instead of allocating a new one for each call.
```

> As a guardrail, you can use the "TailCall" attribute (since F# 8). The compiler will emit a warning if this attribute is used with a function that is not properly tail recursive.

Reviewer: maybe something should mention that you typically turn that to warnaserror somewhere?

If we add this attribute to the previous example:

```fsharp
[<TailCall>]
let rec fact x =
    if x < 1 then 1
    else x * fact (x - 1)
```
...the compiler gives us this warning:
```
Warning FS3569 : The member or function 'fact' has the 'TailCallAttribute' attribute, but is not being used in a tail recursive way.
```
However, when refactored to be properly tail recursive by using an accumulator parameter, the warning goes away:
```fsharp
[<TailCall>]
let rec factTail acc x =
    if x < 1 then acc
    else factTail (acc * x) (x - 1)
```

### Mutually Recursive Functions

> Those functions which call each other are indicated by both `rec` and `and` keywords:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pairs or groups of functions that call each other are indicated by both `rec` and `and` keywords:
```

<div id="collections-sequences"></div>

## Sequences

A *sequence* is a logical series of elements of the same type. `seq<'t>` is an alias for [`System.Collections.Generic.IEnumerable<'t>`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.collections.generic.ienumerable-1).

```fsharp
// Create
let seq1 = { 1; 2 }
let seq2 = seq {
        1
        2 }
let seq3 = seq { 1..2..9 }  // start..increment..last; 1,3,5,7,9
```

See the [Seq Module](https://fsharp.github.io/fsharp-core-docs/reference/fsharp-collections-seqmodule.html) for built-in functions.

## Collection comprehension

- Computed expressions with `->`. Results in _1, 3, 5, 7, 9_
    ```fsharp
    let listComp  = [ for i in 0..4 -> 2 * i + 1 ]
    let arrayComp = [| for i in 0..4 -> 2 * i + 1 |]
    let seqComp   = seq { for i in 0..4 -> 2 * i + 1 }
    ```

- Using computed expressions with `yield` and `yield!`. (`yield` is optional in a `do`, but is being used explicitly here):
    ```fsharp
    let comprehendedList = [  // [ 1;3;5;7;9 ]
        for i in 0..4 do
            yield 2 * i + 1
        ]
    let comprehendedArray = [|  // [| 1;3;5;7;9;1;3;5;7;9 |]
        for i in 0..4 do
            yield 2 * i + 1

>         yield! listWithYield

Reviewer: is this supposed to reference comprehendedList?

Author: Looks like it to me

    member _.Mag = mag
    member _.Scale(s) = // (3)
        Vector(x * s, y * s)
    static member (+) (a : Vector, b : Vector) = // (4)
        Vector(a.X + b.X, a.Y + b.Y)
```

Call a base class from a derived one.

```fsharp
type Animal() =
    member _.Rest() = ()

type Dog() =
    inherit Animal()
    member _.Run() =
        base.Rest()
```

*Upcasting* is denoted by `:>` operator.

```fsharp
let dog = Dog()
let animal = dog :> Animal
```

*Dynamic downcasting* (`:?>`) might throw an `InvalidCastException` if the cast doesn't succeed at runtime.

```fsharp
let shouldBeADog = animal :?> Dog
```

<div id="interfaces-and-object-expressions"></div>

# Interfaces and Object Expressions

Declare `IVector` interface and implement it in `Vector`.

```fsharp
type IVector =
    abstract Scale : float -> IVector

type Vector(x, y) =
    interface IVector with
        member _.Scale(s) =
            Vector(x * s, y * s) :> IVector
    member _.X = x
    member _.Y = y
```

Another way of implementing interfaces is to use *object expressions*.

```fsharp
type ICustomer =
    abstract Name : string
    abstract Age : int

let createCustomer name age =
    { new ICustomer with

>         member __.Name = name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        member _.Name = name
```

>         member __.Age = age }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        member __.Age = age }
```
need to look for clones as this ugliness died in F# 6
